All right guys soon in this video we're gonna start to work on the rest of the index page.
So we want this.
This process my creative process and we want these font awesome icons.
We want to add some background to it.
This transition effect and get these numbers kind of inside of the the display of the icon.
All right.
And then we also do the footer as well with these social media icons with the hover effect.
So we're going to start with each team Miles also let's jump into V.S. code and go to our index each
team will go right below Section B which is the stats that we did in the last video and let's say section
C..
And this is the process section.
So I'm going to give this a an idea of home dash see and let's give it a class of text center and also
a class of P Y two.
So do some padding on the top and bottom.
We want our container.
You can see there's a lot of repetitiveness in these sections.
So we'll have each two.
Let's give it a class of Section dash title which I believe we still have to add in the CSX and we're
just going to see my creative process and let's put let's do a bottom line game and we have that bottom
line class.
So we'll do bottom line.
And underneath that we're going to have a class a paragraph with the class of lead.
And we're going to say actually you know what I'm going to do is just
paste this in you guys can just copy it.
So it's go right here.
So all of my UI UX and design projects are based off of a practice formula to get the result I am looking
for.
And of course you can put whatever you'd like in here.
I just wanted to make it a little more realistic.
We are going to have some form of some content but I wanted to put some real text in here as well.
So underneath this paragraph let's create a class called process.
OK.
Now this process is going to be the the four divs with the icons and the text and so on and so this
right here.
OK.
So the process class will surround these and then will have the divs inside and we'll use the grid to
align them.
So let's go back and in process let's do div and we're gonna have our icons so we'll say I with the
class of FH s and the icon we're gonna use as F A Dash file dash all right.
And we want this to be four times its size so we're gonna say f or four times the regular default size.
So for X and we're also going to add in here process dash icon which is a custom class I'm going to
add and then I want to do the m y and when we did the margin classes for the top and bottom we're gonna
do M Y two.
Now inside here remember we want to have the numbers 1 2 3 4.
Inside the icon.
So we're gonna put a div inside here and let's give this a class of process.
Dash step and going to put a number 1.
Okay.
Now underneath that C in what I'm gonna do here is I'm actually gonna float it because of the way that
it's it's positioned so I'm gonna just put a clear class underneath this.
OK so we're gonna put a clear class and then underneath that we're gonna have an H 3 and let's say discuss
the project
and then we'll put a paragraph and let's do Lorem think I did last 15 looks about right.
Okay.
So that's gonna be the first one first div.
So I'm going to actually copy this whole div and let's put it in two three four times.
OK I'm just gonna save it to format it with prettier.
So the first one's all set which is this one.
Now the second one is gonna have an icon of f a desktop OK and we want to keep these classes we just
want to change this to two for the heading let's say we'll do brainstorming and concept and I'll just
keep the same text OK.
And then for this third one here the icon is gonna be F.A. dash object dash unwrap and then we want
to change the step to three and then the title let's change that to UI dash or slash you X planning
okay and then for the last one here we're gonna make this thumbs up.
So if a push up see we want this to be step four.
And the title lets say interaction.
So save that.
Let's see what it looks like without the CSA.
So it just looks like this.
And notice I do have the same icons here in here.
So if you want to change those out that's fine.
I just didn't want to go crazy looking for icons because the content is really not that important.
You can only switch out the content it's the markup in the CSF that we're really paying attention to.
So let's add some of those utility classes so we have let's see we want our clear class we want the
process to that's not really a that's not a utility class but we did have lead which I think we already
added Let's see do we add lead.
Yes you did.
There was bottom line.
We didn't add that yet.
So it's go down here.
This is utilities SPSS and let's do bottom dash line.
All right.
So for bottom line we're just going to do a do a height.
OK.
So it's just gonna be just a line with the main color.
So let's do a height of two pixels.
Let's do a width of three ram let's do a background of the main color and let's make this display block
and then let's add a little margin so I'm going to do margin let's do zero auto 1 auto on the left and
right we'll do one room and then auto.
So let's save that and you can see right here this is what it looks like.
OK.
And if you want to make it thicker if you want to increase the width that's that's fine to just make
sure OK.
So one thing that another thing we have to add is the title see how this one is bigger.
That's because we didn't add the section title I believe that's what we named it.
So we have class section title.
So let's put that right here.
Say section dash title and it's a utility class because we use it over and over in different parts of
the site.
So I'm going to set the font size to be a little bigger.
Let's do two RAM and let's set the let's make it display block.
Let's make the padding bottom let's say zero point five RAM and let's align it to the center
which it already is.
But it doesn't hurt just to add that just to make sure.
So I'm going to say Fine.
Wait let's do a font weight of one hundred and let's make it up make sure it's uppercase of text transform
uppercase.
OK.
So let's take a look at it now and that looks better.
OK you can see we have the title and the bottom line.
All right so let's start to work on the.
The.
The whole process area.
So we're going to go back to our main dot SPSS and let's see we have.
Remember we have our home.
We have home dash a home dash B.
Now we want to work on a home dash C..
So I want to go to the end of the dash B which is right here and let's say home section C..
And we'll do Ampersand dash C and I want to work on the process div.
OK.
So we're gonna display this as a grid.
And let's do our grid template columns.
And I'm going to use a repeat.
Let's do repeat four times one fraction.
So we have four four even columns will set a grid gap.
I'm going to go a little larger going to do one point five room for the grid gap.
And just text align everything to the center.
OK.
Now we want to take each process step.
So if we look at our each team all we have right.
Is it's right here.
The process step class which surrounds the number which is this right here the circle part.
So we're going to work on that.
Now since the class is called process dash step we can simply go within process and we can just do Ampersand
dash step.
All right.
Now I'm going to position it absolute because I want to move it in word and then we're gonna set the
top to zero and the right to zero
K and then let's do a font size.
I'm actually going to set this to a pixel 28 pixels and then let's set the background so background
is going to be the main color.
All right.
Let me just check that room quick.
Yes.
So it's going to be main color but when we try to hover over it it's going to transition into the dark
color.
So let's see.
Well this should be background either background color or just background and then we're going to set
the ball we want it to be circle a circle behind it so we're going to set border radius to 50 percent
and let's set a height of 15 pixels and a width of 15 pixels OK.
And then we're gonna set a line height of the same.
So 15 pixels and 4 padding.
I'll do one room and we want it to transition.
So we'll add transition.
All I'm going to do one second.
OK.
So that's our step.
Now we want to work on the icon.
Now remember we we gave it a custom class of process dash icon.
So within this process right here we go go after the step and we'll just do dash icon and like that.
And again if you want to comment this like we could say this is the process dash icon
process dash step
so for the icon what I'm going to do is set a border radius because again we want it to be certain circles
so we'll do 50 percent and let's set the background to the dark color variable.
Let's set the color to we'll do white.
And then the padding 2 to room and then we want this to be excuse me much bigger than this.
The step so I'm going to set it to 70 pixels and also set the height to 70.
OK.
And then let's set the line height to the same thing height to 70 pixels.
And then let's make sure it's text aligned center.
And we want to position this relative because the step is inside the icon.
Price should it put the icon styling first but it doesn't really matter.
And then I'm gonna add transition for this transform.
We want to transition and I'm going to do all one second OK.
Now let's just save that and see what we get.
So that's what we get.
And when it loads it does it did the transition just because it was the first load with live server
but you can see that that looks pretty good.
However we do want that hover effect and we want them to transition.
All right.
So actually you know what guys I'm not exactly sure why had the clear class in their so we're going
to get rid of that.
There is no flow.
I don't I actually don't know why I did that.
So we're just going to clear the ups.
I'm going to clear these out.
Sorry about that.
Oh see you get those.
This one this one
OK.
So now like I said we're going to work on the hover so let's go back to main dot SPSS and we're gonna
do the hover on the icons.
So you want to make sure you're within the icon and we want to add Ampersand coal and hover and we want
to set the background.
So remember we're dealing with the icons.
We want to set the background to the main color.
By default it's the dark color and then we want to set the width.
I'm going to make it grow a little bit.
So we're going to do 90 pixels height 90 pixels and also the line height 90 pixels.
OK.
Now the process step I also want to change I want to change that.
The color of that which by default is the main color.
I want to reverse it to the dark color.
So when we hover over the icon we also want the class of process step to change the background to the
dark color.
OK so let's try it we'll save it and go down here and hover over and you can see that the icon process
icon grows from 70 to 90.
Changes the background color and then the absolute positioned process step class changes the color as
well and they both transition nicely over one second.
All right.
So that's it for that part.
Now we want to we want to deal with the footer which shouldn't be too bad.
So let's go back into index each team now and let's go down below the last section here and create our
footer
so we'll put.
Let's do a footer tag and let's give it an idea of main dash footer and we're gonna have a class in
here called footer dash content.
And I'm also I also want to contain or so I'm just gonna add that here as well.
And then in here we'll put a paragraph or say copy right Ampersand copy semicolon which will give us
a little copyright symbol 20 19.
All rights reserved.
And then under that I want the social icons which I'm going to put in a class called social and let's
do some fun awesome icons so f a f a b is what we want to use for the social media icons and I'm gonna
do Twitter so F.A. dash Twitter.
Copy this down four times and we want Facebook.
Let's do Instagram
and let's do LinkedIn.
All right.
So if we take a look at that without any CSX it should look like this.
So now let's go back into main dot SPSS and let's deal with the footer.
So we want to be and see we want to be outside of everything.
So just go down to the bottom here
and let's do I.D..
Main dash footer and the footer itself will give a background let's do a dark color color.
We'll say white and let's do a height of we'll do five REM.
Now the footer content I'm going to style which is inside the main footer so we can put it in here.
So footer dash content
and I'm going to use flex here so we'll say display flex and let's do justify content space between.
So remember the footer has to the week we gave this photo content a class I mean I'm sorry a display
of flax and we have the paragraph and then we have this div as flex items and we want space between
because we want them on each side.
So we want to put all the remaining space in between.
Next thing I'm going to set the height to the same as the parent as the main foot or so 5 room and then
let's do a line items one of the line items to the center.
OK.
Now we want to take care of the icons so let's see the icons are still inside footer content.
So we can stay within here and we'll say dot social and then I want to style the icons which all have
a class of FCB.
OK.
So I'm going to give them a margin right.
Just to separate them a little bit of one room.
Let's do a border.
We'll do border two pixels white and solid and let's do a border radius because we want them to be circular
a radius of 50 percent.
And let's do a height height width and line height of 20 pixels
OK and then let's do text align center
and let's do a little bit of padding so we'll do zero point five.
OK.
Now when we hover them we want the main color.
So within this social FCB class we're just gonna do Ampersand call and hover
and just set the background to the main color.
All right.
And that's it.
So let's save that and go back and you can see our photo looks pretty good.
We have the hover effect on the icons.
Now the last thing I want to do is I want to use the set text color function that we created in the
last section because I think that'll be helpful if we want to change you know the main color or dark
color any background color at all.
So let's go into we're going to put this in our config with our variables.
So this config is usually where I would put any variables mix ins functions things like that.
So let's just say set text color and let's do at function and we want to call this set text color and
it's going to take in a color which is going to be basically the background color and then we're gonna
do simple conditions so we'll do if we're gonna test the lightness so we'll see if the lightness of
the color that's passed in is greater than 50 then we want to return the color of black.
We need.
We need at symbol here and then we're gonna do an else
K ls then we want to return a white color.
OK.
And if you want to change up the colors that's fine.
Can you use black and white.
So we'll save that and let's see what I actually want to implement this.
Let's go to see.
So basically wherever we have a background color we can implement this
this see.
So the divs background color we don't need to do it.
Actually I don't know if there's I don't know if we actually need to put this anywhere just yet.
So right here the actually for the icon we should probably do that.
I mean we take a look here.
So here if we wanted to change these icons to have a light background then we would want the icons themselves
to be dark.
So we should implement it here so instead of just white let's do a set dash text dash color and let's
pass in dark color.
OK we'll save that.
We should get the same result.
However if we were to change both of these two light then the text should change dark or the icon.
Yep.
There we go.
Good.
It's going to change those back and then we should probably do do the same thing with with the step.
So let's add right below it a color and let's set that to set.
Text color and pass in the main color and we'll take a look.
Good.
So if we were to to make the background light on that
change both of these to light.
So now just the step should be light but it should have a dark.
There we go.
Has a dark text.
Oh we probably want to do it to the hover too as you can see now you can't see the number.
So on the hover right here let's also add color set
text color dark color and that will decide and it will make it light.
So let's just try that out now and hover it.
You'll see that it turns light.
Good.
So let's change the main color back to main for the step here so those two main color.
Well it was it main or was it dark.
No it's dark.
No it was me.
Sorry.
All right.
There you go.
OK.
And if you find other places where you want to use that function you can do that as well.
All right.
So I think that that's it for this video and that's it for the home page as far as aside from making
it responsive.
So in the next video we're going to start on the about page.